title: Debian accepted me for Google Summer of Code 2015 
date: 2015-04-28
category: Blog, cProjects
tags: ["Debian","GSoC","Debsources"]
published: true
author: Orestis
photo: /static/img/gsoc2015.jpg

Yay! I found out that I got accepted by Debian to work on the Debsources project for Google Summer of Code 2015. This announcement pretty much ends up two exciting months for me. 

* My research project was completed and i received some great feedback on that! [moar](/tag/research)
* I got some really helpful feedback from Stefano Zacchiroli for the patches I have sent for Debsources.
* I participated in another successful 2-days conferences for the Libre. [Journees du Logiciel Libre](http://jdll.org)
* I travelled to the US and visited the amazing Niagara falls!
* I got accepted for gsoc!

I am craving to start, along with the fellow students accepted, the work. I'll have the chance with Clement Schreiner to improve [Debsources](http://sources.debian.org) contributing to the creation of two new trackers, a license and a patch tracker, as well as transitioning the infrastructure from a syncrhonous to an asynchronous one. Links for the [project proposal](https://wiki.debian.org/SummerOfCode2015/Projects#SummerOfCode2015.2FProjects.2FDebsources_as_a_Platform.Debsources_as_a_Platform) and [my proposal](https://wiki.debian.org/SummerOfCode2015/StudentApplications/OrestisIoannou).

## Few words on Debsources

From the website:

>
>Debsources provides Web access to the source code of the Debian operating system.
>
>You can browse through the list of available source packages, or search for a particular one based on its name. Multiple versions of each source package are available — currently both versions coming from all official suites available via the Debian mirror network, and historical releases from archive.debian.org are available.
>
>You can also search within the actual source code using regular expressions via Debian Code Search; search results will link you back here. Note that Debian Code Search only index the unstable suite and is updated less often than Debsources, so there might be update lags between the two services.
>
>Once chosen a specific package version, you can browse through the source package structure, inspect individual source files, and obtain links to individual lines. If you have Javascript enabled in your browser, source code will be syntax-highlighted; otherwise the raw file will be returned. Using specific URL schemes you can highlight specific code lines as well as associate pop-up messages to them.
>
>You can also use Debsources programmatically via its API, or simply as a stable base to point to particular lines in a source file.

For the recent development and future aims you can watch the [video](http://meetings-archive.debian.net/pub/debian-meetings/2015/mini-debconf-lyon/02_Debsources:_dive_into_Debian_source_code_by_Matthieu_Caneill.webm) from Matthieu Caneill.

You can also have a look at the publication from Stefano and Matthieu: [here](https://upsilon.cc/~zack/research/publications/debsources-esem-2014.pdf) and [here](https://upsilon.cc/~zack/research/publications/debsources-msr-2015.pdf)

## Whats next?

So I am already planning a bit in advance for the upcoming months. First things first I'll move this website to a VPS so that I can profit from more thins from Flask than just the static generator. I am looking into creating an RSS feed for the blog at least (or last!). 

There's the community bonding period. I hope to achieve the goals I have set in my proposal and generally gearing up for May :).

I am really looking forward working with my mentors, I have already received some great feedback for the patches and I am sure there's more to come! (both from them and me)

I am a bit behind on schedule with the blog. I bought a new laptop and I intend to document out again how to install Debian as well as providing some results for the attempts to install Jessie on my older macbooks (this time without rEFInd).